# CS-305-Software-Security

# Briefly summarize your client, Artemis Financial, and their software requirements. Who was the client? What issue did they want you to address?
Artemis Financial is a company the was in need of creating a more secure environment to communicate with their clients and with their coworkers. They also needed to add more security to their existing system to prevent unwanted access of personal information.
# What did you do very well when you found your client’s software security vulnerabilities? Why is it important to code securely? What value does software security add to a company’s overall wellbeing?
I was able to understand what Artemis Finaicial's problem was, and help them come up with a reasonable solution to help them create a more secure environment. It is important to code securely to prevent vulnerabilities, data breaches, and cyberattacks. Secure coding practices help to safeguard sensitive information, maintain the integrity of the system, and protect privacy.
# What part of the vulnerability assessment was challenging or helpful to you?
The two projects were challenging to me because I've never done anything with security for programming. With this being a completely brand new topic for me, I definitely had to spend more time working on these projects to accurately complete them. I think that the challenge of the projects has definitely taught me many things about how to structure proper security for a program. I will be excited to use this in a real life situation someday.
# How did you increase layers of security? In the future, what would you use to assess vulnerabilities and decide which mitigation techniques to use?
Using pieces of the vulnerability flow chart allowed me to create layers of security. I used input validation, encryption, secure coding practices, updates, and dependencies. I feel like the answer to the second part of this question can go on forever depending on the situation. I don't think that any one technique can be used to address every vulnerability. The best option is to use a multilayer approach that will cover the most vulnerabilities. Depending on the situation, the mitigation plan could change depending on the specific vulnerabilities that you may be facing.
# How did you make certain the code and software application were functional and secure? After refactoring the code, how did you check to see whether you introduced new vulnerabilities?
Trial and error honestly. I created the code based on research and our book, and then tried and tested to see what would run and what errors arose through Eclipse. Once I had a working program, I was able to go back through the code and add input validations and encryptions to make sure the program was secure. I manually went back through to the code to make sure I had no new vulnerabilities. I also did several other tests and checks like adding a security certificate and completing a dependency check to verify secure connections.
# What resources, tools, or coding practices did you use that might be helpful in future assignments or tasks?
I think the self generating security certificate will be a great tool to have in the future. I had a rough time attempting to use this process through Eclipse. I downloaded the tool to use it within the program, but I found it much simpler to just use the command line to create it myself. Then I was able to install it to my local device and create a secure connection.
# Employers sometimes ask for examples of work that you have successfully completed to show your skills, knowledge, and experience. What might you show future employers from this assignment?
I'm not sure that I am necesarily destined to work on the security side of a programming project, but I think I will be able to show future employers my abilities to overcome problems and still find solutions while including clear and concise lines of code with comments that show exactly the path I took to get my solution.
